---
layout: post
title: Commodity Prices Based on Weather Changes
---

With all of the data that we have for weather, and everything that we know about crops, I was curious if I could track weather patterns and discover the effects on a specific crop’s harvest, and ultimately, how their market rate. Examples would be wheat, coffee, etc. This could be valuable to a food processing company, to have an idea of what their costs will be in the future. It could be useful for them to lock in prices on bulk purchases in their contracts. For an investor, it might give an indication of where prices are headed in the futures markets.
There are some challenges to this project. Here are a few:
• Weather conditions that change rapidly and significantly, such as a frost, could have a negative effect on a crop’s harvest. Creating those parameters would require some judgement calls rather than just mapping data points.
• It might be difficult to map out crop production of certain counties/parishes.
• Some crops have a wide range of harvest times depending on the region where they grow.
• Future supply and demand for crops isn’t knowable; this would require a judgement call, likely based on supply and demand from the previous year.
Some things to think about, and I’m sure there are more. My approach to this project will be the following:
• Find daily weather data by county/parish.
• Find daily commodity price fluctuations.
• Find historical production supplies by county/parish.
• Build code that will show how daily weather changes effect and predict crop harvests.
